1. SMC Pneumatics (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Jogesh Kwatra
	> India's first case of cyber defamation
	1.Jogesh Kwatra, was an employee in the plaintiff’s company
	2.He started sending filthy emails to his employers and subsidiaries to defame its Managing director.
	3.investigation took place ,defented was terminated from service
	4.further,honarable judge restarined defended from publishing any information in actual world as in cyberspace .
	5.order of court asssumes tremendous significance as this is the first time concerning cyberspace.

2. Suhas Katti v. State of Tamil Nadu
	1.The accused was the victim’s family friend and wanted to marry her but she married another man which resulted in a divorce. 
	2.After her divorce, the accused influenced her again and, on her unwillingness to marry him, 
	3.he took the course of harassment through the Internet. 
	4.He opened a false e-mail account in the victim's name and posted obscene, defamatory, and annoying information about the victim.

	5.The accused was convicted under Section 469 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and
	6.Section 67 of the IT Act by Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate.

3. Romesh Thapar Case
	1.The petitioner was the the printer, publisher and editor of a journal in English called Cross Roads printed and published in Bombay.
	2.Under Section 9 (1-A) of the the Madras Maintenance of Public Order Act, 1949, the entry and circulation of the journal was banned in the erstwhile State of Madras.
	3.In response to the ban, the petitioner filed a writ petition before the Supreme Court, 
	4.In response, it was considered on behalf of the respondent State, that the restriction was for the purpose of public safety and public order.
	5.arguing that the State’s justification for the ban on the basis of “public safety” was too broad. 
	6.The Court noted that such expansive restrictions were unconstitutional and that only narrow restrictions on freedom of expression were permitted.

4. Mohd. Ahmed Khan v. Shah Bano Begum
	1.Ms. Shah Bano Begum was married to a lawyer named Mr. Mohd. Ahmed Khan. They lived together for 43 years and had five children.
	2.In 1978, Mr. Khan threw Ms. Begum out of the shared household and Ms. Begum applied for maintenance from Mr. Khan under Section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (Cr.P.C, 1973).
	3. Pending her application, Mr. Khan dissolved the marriage by pronouncing a triple talaq and paid Ms. Begum 3000 rupees as mahr 
	4. and a further sum of maintenance for the iddat period .
	5. Mr. Khan argued that Ms. Begum’s claim for maintenance should be dismissed as Ms. Begum had received the amount due to her on divorce under the Muslim personal law. 
	6.The lower court granted Ms. Begum’s claim for maintenance, which was set at 179 rupees per month by the High Court in a revision application. 
	6.Mr. Khan appealed to the Supreme Court in 1985 and the Court held that a payment made pursuant to personal laws cannot absolve a husband of his obligation 
		to pay fair and reasonable maintenance under Section 125 Cr.P.C, 1973 and a husband can be liable to pay maintenance beyond the iddat period.